---
title: 'Border[s]'
date: 2019-11-21T20:14:25.534Z
image: /images/photo_2019-11-29_19-35-42.jpg
draft: false
---
In our eternal public debate we continue to discuss, more or less, about the value that a border should have: either an internal limit that excludes everything which lies in front because it is consider non compatible with certain cultural omogenizations, as it happens in China and to some degree also in the USA; or the border as an external symbol, which pretend to projection of power in order to contain the populist spirit of some who would love to save some cultural values on the brink of contamination, or to protect inactive and precarious economical and/or political status as some state realities would love to have.

Border have always existed, let’s be clear: they are what defines the other and in consequence ourselves, our sense of belonging: it’s a neutral definition: ex temporanea.

Georgia is a country that in its way constitutes more borders: a sort of country in which are present cultural variations from the same root. 

Is a country that stills protest and claims back the occupancy of its 20% of territory by the Russian Army which took over Abkhazia and South Ossetia. 

It is also a country that seems to dilute itself as we reach its extremities: azeris populations reside along the southeastern border: splendid and solitary mosque start to appear, georgian is not an usable language, the inhabitants of this zone, even  if they are georgian citizens, are of islamic culture and turkish language.

Another border reality extremely interesting is the Pankisi Valley: a super small area close to Chechenya in which chechenyans have lived for about two centuries.

Chechenya evokes, not with some valid motif, exasperated fears that come from the 1999-2009 war,  from the numbers of fundamentalist who have commited terrorist attacks and endorsed Daesh , from an area we understand little because is often difficult for a foreigner to penetrate, from an area that is not very trustworthy of the foreigner: an internal and external border.

The Pankisi Valley represents an exception to this judgement. The kits, as this populations are called, came to Georgia few centuries ago to escape from the common practice of blood vendetta.

They found an hospitable space in which they were allowed to live and profess their islamic beliefs; they were considered optimal interlocutors with which to filter fears and threats residing from the other side of the mountains: from the border.

The kits are a sunni minority who gravitates around a small village name Jokolo: no more than three thousand souls live within the valley.

There are two mosque, in one a small group of woman still performs sufi rituals, some instances of the muslim law are still respected without falling into fundamentalism, the hospitality towards the visitors it is a matter of pride even though after the Chechenyan war the reputation of this area was stained and since it has, to some degree, being considered if not a dangerous zone a place without much attraction.

Indeed the attractions are few beyond the immensity of the caucasus, the sufi rituals of every friday evening, few medieval towers recovered by the nature, a splendid etnographic museum, a river bed dried by the hydroelectrical power plant, beautiful hills, a tiny cementery in which cows graze freely, a school of judo, another of english, and a small library.

It is a sui generis place in Georgia: alcohol is not allowed to be drinked, sold, nor produced, woman in spite of being excluded from many activities since a young age -  they are expected to wear the veil, are forbidden to ride a bycicle, to dance in public, to practice any sport considered manly enough, just to name a few – are the real managers of the economical activities that, in most of the cases are establish thanks to the economical help from their husbands and sons who have emigrated to Europe.

It is, within its limits: few supermarkets, one atm, few public trasportation options, a wealthy community

Nevertheless is a place permeated by a inimitable sense of peace: life goes as slow as Virgil could have imagined, the houses are not houses but gardens which gift plentiful fruits to who lives inside and their guest, smiles are unrestrained, the hours of the day so free and fresh to the point to pity the ones who live in a New York’s Penthouse.

Georgian Chechenya is a few steps from the russian one. 

Until a few years ago that border was difficult to cross but active, today is highly watched and impossible to cross: it is no longer a filter but a wall in which two realities have evolved in opposite directions: one in which despite men being carefree and timelosers women have had the streght, hability, wit and pragmatism to clear the negative image of the Pankisi valley: it has became a rare flower to visit.

The other is still covered in mistery and fear.
