---
title: 'Border[s]'
date: 2019-11-19T10:19:46.734Z
draft: true
---
## Jokolo, October 13th, 2019

In our eternal public debate we continue to discuss, more or less, about the value that a border should have: either an internal limit that excludes everything which lies in front because it is consider non compatible with certain cultural omogenizations, as it happens in China and to some degree also in the USA; or the border as an external symbol, which pretend to be a projection of power in which to contain the populist spirit of some European leaders which would love to be remember as the saviors of some cultural values on the brink of contamination, or to protect inactive and precarious economical and/or political status.

<!-- excerpt -->

Borders have always existed: they are what defines the other and in consequence ourselves, our sense of belonging: it’s a neutral definition: ex temporanea.

Georgia is a country that in its way constitutes more borders: a country in which are present cultural variations from the same root: the caucaus.

Is a country that stills protest and claims back the occupancy of its 20% of territory by the Russian Army which took over Abkhazia and South Ossetia. 

It is also a country that seems to dilute itself as we reach its extremities: azeris populations reside along the southeastern border: splendid and solitary mosques start to appear, georgian is not an usable language, the inhabitants of this zone, even if they are georgian citizens, are of islamic culture and turkish language. Armenians and Turkish minorities coexist in the southwest. Megrelians constitute a whole region in the west.

Another border reality extremely interesting is the Pankisi Valley: a small area in Kakheti in which chechnyans have lived for about two centuries.

Chechnya has often evoked exasperated fears, the most recents originated from the 1999-2009 war, from the numbers of fundamentalist who have commited terrorist attacks and endorsed Daesh , from an area we understand little because is often difficult - or not common - for a foreigner to penetrate, from an area that has appeared as not very trustworthy of the foreigner.

The Pankisi Valley represents an exception to this judgement. The kits, as this populations are called, came to Georgia few centuries ago to escape from the common practice of blood vendetta, to find better grounds away from the stepped peaks.

They found an hospitable space in which they were allowed to live and profess their islamic beliefs; they were considered optimal interlocutors with which to filter fears and threats residing from the borders.

The kits are a muslim minority who gravitates around a series of small villages: Duisi, Jokolo, Birkiani: no more than six thousand souls live within the valley.

There are two mosque, in the old one a small group of old women still performs sufi rituals, some instances of the muslim and traditional law are still respected without falling into fundamentalism, the hospitality towards the visitors it is a matter of pride even though after the chechnyan war the reputation of this area was stained and since it has, to some degree, being considered within Georgia if not a dangerous zone a place without much attraction.

Indeed the attractions are few beyond the immensity of the caucasus, the sufi rituals of every friday evening, few medieval towers recovered by the nature, a splendid etnographic museum, a river bed dried by the hydroelectrical power plant, tiny cementery in which cows graze freely, a school of judo, another of english, and a small library.

It is a sui generis place in Georgia: alcohol is not allowed to be drinked, women in spite of being excluded from many activities since a young age - they are expected to wear the veil, are forbidden to ride a bycicle, to dance in public, to practice any sport considered manly enough, just to name a few – are the real managers of the economical activities. An important part of the economical imputs come from many of the villagers that have mass migrated to Europe.

It is, within its limits: few supermarkets, one atm, few public trasportation options, a wealthy community

It is a place permeated by a inimitable sense of peace: life goes as slow and bucolic as Virgil could have imagined, the houses are not houses but gardens which gift plentiful fruits to who lives inside and their guest, smiles are unrestrained, the hours of the day so free and fresh to the point to pity the ones who live in a New York’s Penthouse.

Georgian chechnya is a few steps from the russian one.

Until a few years ago that border was difficult to cross but active, today is highly watched, mined, and impossible to cross: it is no longer a filter but a wall in which two realities have evolved in opposite directions: one in which despite the strong prejudices have had the streght, hability, wit and pragmatism to clear the negative image of the Pankisi valley: it has became a rare flower to visit.

The other is still covered in mistery and fear.
